=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v release notes for 2.12

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 2.12>>.
This describes the major changes since 2.10.

Virt-v2v 2.12.0 was released on S<B<10 July 2026>>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 New features

Enable conversions of Debian 12 guests that use UEFI (Martin Necas).

Enable conversions of SLES 12 SP5 and Ubuntu 24.04 that use LUKS
encrypted filesystems (Cole Robinson).

Enable conversions of Kylin, NeoKylin and Anolis Linux distributions
(grass lu).

Add new I<--no-fstrim> option to disable fstrim during conversion
(sarika at Platform 9).

New I<--collect> option which can be used to collect pre-conversion
information such as the Windows Registry and event log for later
diagnosis (thanks Vadim Rozenfeld).

The I<-i disk> input method now allows C<nbd://...> URIs to be used
instead of local disks.  This allows more flexible conversions such as
converting from xz-compressed images.

L<virt-v2v-inspector(1)> now includes information about XFSv4 and
XFSv5 filesystems.

L<virt-v2v-in-place(1)> and virt-v2v-inspector XML output now contains
suggested disk boot order information (thanks Elad Hazan).

=begin comment

=head2 Features removed

=end comment

=head2 Other fixes

Fix detection of remote files when using I<-it ssh> mode (Ming Xie).

When injecting virtio-win drivers in Windows guests, install
F<blnsvr.exe> (the balloon server) (Cole Robinson).

Fix installation of Windows Vista and Windows 2008 Server R1 drivers
(Cole Robinson).

Stop using xfs_repair I<-m> option (thanks Ming Xie, Eric Sandeen,
Dave Chinner).

Ignore AGFL inconsistencies in XFS filesystems on RHEL 7 guests
(thanks Brian Foster, Eric Sandeen).

Retry Windows qemu-guest-agent installer several times to work around
temporary installation bugs (thanks Martin Necas, Cole Robinson).

Virt-v2v I<--key> parameter now allows binary keys.

Virt-v2v I<--firstboot> scripts on Windows may now exit with code 250
to avoid rebooting after the script (Srihari Parimi).

Immutable F</etc/resolv.conf> no longer prevents conversion (Srihari
Parimi).

Obey cgroup v2 CPU limits (Susant Sahani).

Fix output filenames if guest name contains C</> character (Susant
Sahani).

=head2 Documentation

Document how to recover the key used by Windows guests that stored the
Bitlocker disk encryption key in the VMware vTPM (Ming Xie).

Document pre-conversion steps required for certain guests encrypted
with LUKS using vTPM (Ming Xie, Susant Sahani).

Fix conversion from VMware vCenter where the VMware datastore name
contains some special characters (Cole Robinson).

Document that the PowerShell execution policy C<AllSigned> will not
work (thanks Martin Mecas, Ulhas Surse).

=head2 Build changes

Fix Weblate (i18n) web hooks (Rafael Fontenelle).

Fix and enhance github CI checks (Cole Robinson).

Remove C<AM_GNU_GETTEXT> macro and replace it with simpler C<LIBINTL>
checks (Cole Robinson).

Various build warnings were cleaned up (Cole Robinson).

Fix warnings in configure script related to the order that various
autoconf macros appear (Olaf Hering).

=head2 Internals

Many memory leaks identified by Claude Code were fixed (shivanayak).

Improve debug output (Srihari Parimi).

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

./bugs-in-changelog.sh v2.10.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-4424>

[MTV] Migration of windows 2019 VM fails to install qemu-ga and set static IP if ExecutionPolicy is set in souce VM. 

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-85154>

ubuntu guest with encrypted disk and TPM fails boot into OS after v2v conversion

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-93583>

sles12sp5 guest with encrypted brtfs fliesystem fails to boot into OS after v2v conversion

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-103915>

win11 guest with vtpm and bitlocker enabled will power off automatically if the user does not enter the key in 1 minute after v2v conversion [docs only]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-133729>

virt-v2v migration from vSphere fails when datastore name has characters like '+' [rhel-10.2]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-136479>

v2v fails to create the disk on target if the source guest contains specific characters like '*+_/'

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-137121>

encrypted ubuntu installation fails to boot after conversion

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-144075>

Expose XFS version in virt-v2v-inspector

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-144467>

[MTV] Debian UEFI VM fails to boot after migrating to Openshift Virtualzation. 

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-148423>

blnsvr.exe running from C:\Program Files\Guestfs\Firstboot\Temp

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-152939>

Create sentinel file after all firstboot scripts have finished running

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-164271>

Add virt-v2v-in-place --no-fstrim option

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-165677>

Stop using xfs_repair -m because memory required scales with filesystem size and has sharp edges

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-170864>

virt-v2v failing with binary LUKS keys [virt-v2v]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-178287>

virt-v2v fails during migration of RHEL 7 VMs due to XFS filesystem errors, potentially related to RHEL 10.1 xfs_repair running against a RHEL 7 XFS filesystem.

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-178432>

regression converting ubuntu24.04

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-178556>

Use bind mount to overwrite /sysroot/etc/resolv.conf during "sh" operations

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-184508>

Set boot disk index for guests in virt-v2v-in-place / inspection XML output

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-188772>

RFE: virt-v2v option to collect Windows registry and event logs and other useful information

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-191749>

virt-v2v fails during migration of RHEL 7 VMs due to XFS filesystem errors, potentially related to RHEL 10.1 xfs_repair running against a RHEL 7 XFS filesystem [virt-v2v]

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Authors of virt-v2v 2.12:

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v2.10.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Andi Chandler

=item Arif Budiman

=item Cole Robinson

=item Emilio Herrera

=item Ettore Atalan

=item Fco. Javier F. Serrador

=item grass lu

=item grimst

=item Hela Basa

=item Jan Kuparinen

=item Krascovict Petrov

=item Martin Necas

=item Nathan95

=item Olaf Hering

=item Pavel Borecki

=item Piotr Drąg

=item Rafael Fontenelle

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Ricky Tigg

=item sarika

=item Susant Sahani

=item Temuri Doghonadze

=item Tim Wiederhake

=item Yuri Chornoivan

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2026 Red Hat Inc.
