=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v Release Notes

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 1.42>>,
released on S<B<16th April 2020>>.

=head2 New features

This is the first release where virt-v2v lives in a separate
repository from libguestfs.  The two projects are now broadly
decoupled from one another.

Add a new I<-o json> output mode.  Primarily this is used to do
conversions to KubeVirt (Pino Toscano).

Use new libvirt C<E<lt>firmwareE<gt>> feature to get the source guest
firmware (Pino Toscano).

virt-v2v I<-o rhv-upload> new option I<-oo rhv-disk-uuid> allows disk
UUIDs to be specified.  Also I<-oo rhv-cafile> is now optional
(Pino Toscano).

Conversions over ssh now use L<nbdkit-ssh-plugin(1)> instead of the
QEMU ssh driver.  Similarly L<nbdkit-curl-plugin(1)> is used instead
of the QEMU curl driver.  This allowed us to add more flexible
features such as password authentication, bandwidth throttling (new
I<--bandwidth> option), readahead, and automatic retry on network
failures.

For Windows guests, QEMU Guest Agent MSI may now be installed
(Tomáš Golembiovský).

=head2 Other fixes

In I<-o libvirt> mode, support Windows Server 2019 (Pino Toscano).

Fix Ubuntu Server conversions (Pino Toscano).

Fix installation of qemu-ga by only installing arch-specific
files in the guest (Pino Toscano).

Delay installation of qemu-ga until after virtio-win drivers have been
installed and rebooted (Tomáš Golembiovský).

Save the log from running RHEV-APT installer to allow
debugging (Tomáš Golembiovský).

Check RHV cluster exists before trying to convert when using
I<-o rhv-upload> mode.  Also allows us to detect and reject various other
conditions early.  (Pino Toscano).

Label nbdkit sockets correctly for SELinux/sVirt
(Martin Kletzander).

You can use a block device as the Windows virtio driver ISO.

Multiple fixes to RHV uploads: Set C<DISKTYPE> field correctly when
converting to RHV and VDSM.  Properly clean up on failure.  Display
disk ID in error messages, and log script parameters, to help with
debugging.  Multiple code cleanups.  (Nir Soffer).

Support conversions to RHV in qcow2 format (Nir Soffer).

Fix detection of disk status and failures after conversion to RHV
(Daniel Erez).

Cancel disk transfer and remove uploaded disks on failure of
conversion to RHV (Pino Toscano).

Images containing small holes (sparse regions) should now
convert faster (Nir Soffer).

The L<nbdkit-cacheextents-filter(1)> is used to accelerate
sources which have slow sparseness detection, primarily
this means VMware sources using VDDK (Martin Kletzander).

Require at least 100 free inodes on each guest filesystem before doing
conversion, since lack of inodes could cause conversion failures
(Pino Toscano).

Fix osinfo output for CentOS 8 conversions (Pino Toscano).

VMware tools are now removed from Windows guests automatically in most
cases (Pino Toscano).

I<-i ova> mode no longer reads the whole input OVF into memory, but
parses it off disk (Pino Toscano).

When converting to OpenStack, we now wait up to 5 minutes (instead of
60 seconds) for the Cinder volume to get attached to the conversion
appliance, since in some cases it was taking a long time.

If using a new enough version of nbdkit, virt-v2v logs should be much
less verbose.

=head2 Security

There were no security-related bugs found in this release.

=head2 Build changes

Libguestfs E<ge> 1.40 is required, it is now packaged and distributed
separately from virt-v2v.  For developers you can use a locally built
(and not installed) copy of libguestfs.

Libvirt is now required to build virt-v2v.  Additionally you will
require the OCaml bindings to libvirt (L<https://libvirt.org/ocaml/>),
although a copy is bundled for now (it will be removed later).
(Pino Toscano).

Libosinfo is required to build virt-v2v.  It is used to query
information about guest drivers.  (Pino Toscano).

Fixes for OCaml E<ge> 4.10.  The minimum version of OCaml required is
still 4.01, but may be increased to 4.05 in future.

Test conversions of Debian 9 and Fedora 29 (Pino Toscano).

Various fixes to srcdir != builddir (Pino Toscano).

Remove gnulib modules not used by virt-v2v (Pino Toscano).

=head2 Internals

When converting SUSE guests, always try to install QXL driver (Mike
Latimer).

Two new modules (Nbdkit and Nbdkit_sources) factor out generic nbdkit
operations and nbdkit source operations respectively.

Format Python code to comply with PEP 8 / pycodestyle (Pino Toscano).

Tests have been moved to the F<tests/> subdirectory, and manuals to
the F<docs/> subdirectory.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.40.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1791802>

virt-v2v does not install qemu-ga on EL8 guest

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1791257>

update-crypto-policies command example is incorrect in virt-v2v-input-xen

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1791240>

[RFE] Make the rhv-cafile optional

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1785528>

Should remove info about "Remove VMware tools from Windows guests" in virt-v2v-input-vmware man page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1746699>

Can't import guest from export domain to data domain on rhv4.3 due to error "Invalid parameter: 'DiskType=1'"

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1733168>

virt-v2v: Use scp -T in -i vmx -it ssh mode

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1723305>

Delete info "export PATH=/path/to/nbdkit-1.1.x:$PATH" in virt-v2v-input-vmware manual page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1691659>

virt-v2v should show a message when qemu-guest-agent is installed in guest successfully during conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1690574>

virt-v2v fails to import a guest while cannot find `file_architecture` for a file

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1680361>

[v2v][RHV][Scale] v2v Migration to RHV failed on timed out waiting for transfer to finalize

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1626503>

Unable to maintain static IP address configuration post VM migration

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1612653>

Guest has no disk after rhv-upload converting if target data domain has similar name with other data domain on rhv4.2

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1605242>

Update nbdkit info for vddk in v2v man page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1584678>

On W2K12r2 rhev-apt does not run non-interactively, causing race when starting rhev-apt service from the command line

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1518539>

Macvtap network will be lost during v2v conversion

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>.

Previous release notes covering virt-v2v can be found in the
libguestfs project: L<guestfs-release-notes-1.40(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel Erez

Richard W.M. Jones

Tomáš Golembiovský

Martin Kletzander

Mike Latimer

Nir Soffer

Pino Toscano

Ming Xie

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2020 Red Hat Inc.
