=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v release notes for 2.0

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 2.0>>.
This describes the major changes since 1.42.

No release notes were published for 1.44, so that release is covered
here.

Virt-v2v 2.0.0 was released on S<B<14 March 2022>>.

=head2 Security

There were no security-related bugs found in this release.

=head2 New features

Virt-v2v has been modularised allowing external programs to examine
the state of the conversion and inject their own copying step.
Further enhancements will be made to this new architecture in
forthcoming releases.

The command line is almost identical apart from some debugging
features that were removed (see below).  The only significant
difference is that the output format (I<-of>) now has to be specified
if it is different from the input format, whereas previous versions of
virt-v2v would use the same output format as input format
automatically.

A lot of time was spent improving the performance of virt-v2v in
common cases.

Implement conversion of ALT Linux guests (Mikhail Gordeev).

Many bug fixes and performance enhancements were made to oVirt imageio
output (Nir Soffer).

There is a new L<virt-v2v-in-place(1)> tool which replaces the
existing virt-v2v I<--in-place> option.

Virt-v2v can now convert guests which use LUKS encrypted logical
volumes (Laszlo Ersek).

Option I<-oo rhv-direct> has been replaced by I<-oo rhv-proxy>, and
direct mode (which is much faster) is now the default when writing to
oVirt, with proxy mode available for restricted network configurations
(thanks: Nir Soffer).

The following command line options were removed: I<--print-estimate>,
I<--debug-overlays>, I<--no-copy>.

Virt-v2v no longer installs the RHEV-APT tool in Windows guests.  This
tool was deprecated and then removed in oVirt 4.3.

Deprecated tool virt-v2v-copy-to-local has been removed.  This was
deprecated in November 2018.

=head2 Other fixes

Remove reference to prl_strg driver in Windows guests to avoid BSOD
(Denis Plotnikov).

Fix conversions of UEFI Linux guests that don't provide their own
fallback bootloader (Denis Plotnikov).

Remove use of L<nbdkit-readahead-filter(1)>.  This filter uses a naive
strategy and it had several negative effects on conversions.

Remove prompts for interactive passwords.  Normally you should try to
use the I<-ip> and/or I<-op> options to supply passwords.

For Windows guests, we insert a schtasks command.  However the
parameters of this command are timezone dependent and so it failed in
non-European timezones.  (Thanks: Dinesh Herath, Tomáš Golembiovský,
Bryan Kinney, Mark Zealey, Xiaodai Wang)

Virt-v2v will reauthenticate with vCenter servers periodically when
copying guests over HTTPS which stops large guests and/or slow copies
taking longer than about 30 minutes from failing.

Virt-v2v now sets libguestfs SMP to match number of physical host
CPUs, which helps performance of certain conversion steps.

Virt-v2v output to oVirt now attempts to set the machine and firmware
type correctly.  Note an exact mapping is not always possible and
oVirt may ignore our recommendations (incorrectly) sometimes.

Virt-v2v now generates a virtio-vsock device for guests which support
it (Valeriy Vdovin).

All guests now need at least 100 MB of free space for conversion to
succeed (Ming Xie).

Standard VGA instead of QXL is now used as the video type for
converted guests (Laszlo Ersek).

Older guests (eg RHEL 6) will use the virtio-transitional model after
conversion.  This feature and the machine type are now usually
determined from the libosinfo database, falling back to hard-coded
values if libosinfo is not available (Laszlo Ersek).

When virt-v2v prints messages to a pipe or file it no longer wraps
them, making parsing simpler.  You can enable wrapping in this mode
using I<--wrap> (Laszlo Ersek).

Windows guest firstboot scripts installed by virt-v2v now run in the
right order, making network configuration happen earlier (Laszlo
Ersek).

=head2 Build changes

libguestfs E<ge> 1.44 is now required.

L<nbdcopy(1)> and OCaml NBD bindings, both from libnbd E<ge> 1.10, are
now required.

nbdkit E<ge> 1.22 is now required (Nir Soffer).

pcre2 (instead of pcre) is now required.

gnulib is no longer bundled or used by virt-v2v.

OCaml E<ge> 4.04 is now required.  OCaml 4.13 support has been added
in this release.

OpenSSH scp E<ge> 8.8 is now required.  Earlier versions will fail
because the command line syntax was changed incompatibly.

=head2 Internals

Weblate instead of Zanata is now used for translations (Pino Toscano).

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v1.42.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2051394>

Missing error message of 'insufficient free space in the conversion server temporary directory'

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2044922>

nbdinfo output to stdout instead of stderr during virt-v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2044911>

virt-p2v conversion hangs with RHEL9 virt-v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2043333>

'model='virtio-transitional' is wrongly added when converting windows guest to local by rhel9 v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2041886>

virt-v2v hangs for several minutes when using -ic vpx://... -it vddk with incorrect IP address

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2041852>

Improve the unclear assertion failure at input_xen_ssh.ml

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2041850>

Can not specify '-oo json-disks-pattern' in '-o json' mode

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2039597>

Failed to import VM when selecting OVA as a source on RHV webadmin

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2039255>

Conversion performance is not good when convert guest by modular virt-v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2034240>

calling "get_disk_allocated" in "create_ovf" breaks the rhv-upload output plugin

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2033096>

RFE: Remove -oo rhv-direct and add -oo rhv-proxy option

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2032324>

nbdcopy command failed when using v2v to convert guest from ESXi6.5 via vddk > 6.5 + rhv-upload to rhv4.4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2032112>

Add virt-v2v and libvirt version to the beginning of v2v debug log

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2027673>

V2V can't convert guest from VMware via vmx+ssh when openssh version is 8.7p1-5

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2027598>

There is no guest listed in export domain if use v2v to convert guest to rhv via -o rhv

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1994984>

virt-v2v can't convert bitblocker windows guest with libguestfs error: /dev/mapper/cryptsda: No such file or directory

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1977681>

The usage description of '-oo rhv-disk-uuid=UUID' in man virt-v2v should be updated

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1976607>

[RFE] Drop QXL for guests on CentOS 9 clusters

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1976024>

[RFE][v2v] [upload/download disk/CBT] Failed to attach disk to the VM - disk is OK but image transfer still holds a lock on the disk

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1972125>

Update privileges for Non-admin vmware role when ESXi host has enabled host encryption mode in virt-v2v-input-vmware man page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1967941>

virt-v2v can't install qemu-guest-agent for rhel9 guest during conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1964324>

assertion failed at parse_ova.ml when ova directory ends with '/'

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1961107>

Change video type from qxl to vga after v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1960087>

v2v import from vCenter fails when using interactive password because cookie-script tries to be interactive

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1949147>

Should improve the minimum free space for windows guest in v2v man page and better to improve v2v error message about no space left for windows guest

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1945549>

Delete or improve the warning info about rhev-apt during v2v converting windows guest on rhel9

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1942325>

Virt-v2v should add 'model='virtio-transitional' to RHEL <=6 guest virtio devices during conversion if target is rhel9 system

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1926102>

"virt-v2v: warning: there is no QXL driver for this version of Windows" still shows, even though we copied qxldod driver to the guest

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1917760>

VMware tools not getting uninstalled as part of IMS

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1903960>

Should hidden "virt-v2v: warning: /usr/share/virt-tools/pnp_wait.exe is missing.."during conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1901489>

VDDK 6.7 repeatedly reconnects with nbdkit: vddk[1]: debug: NBD_ClientOpen: attempting to create connection to vpxa-nfc:// followed by virt-v2v failure

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1895323>

After virt-v2v, qemu-ga does not run at Windows firstboot if the timezone is not M/d/yyyy format

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1872100>

Should correct info about 'UEFI on OpenStack' in virt-v2v-support man page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1872094>

Virt-v2v should convert UEFI guest to openstack via openstack option successfully

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1871754>

RFE: Should clarify which file is correct authentication file for openstack/glance conversion in virt-v2v-output-openstack man page

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1868690>

Ceph block device will be destroyed if v2v convert guest to ceph block device and guest disk size is greater than ceph block device

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1858775>

RFE: virt-v2v should check the ip info when specify guest's ip

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1858765>

V2V option --keys-from-stdin gives error: getline: Inappropriate ioctl for device

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1854275>

document that vmx+ssh "-ip" auth doesn't cover ssh / scp shell commands

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1842440>

nbdkit cannot read the password interactively when started from virt-v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1841096>

Option --bandwidth and --bandwidth-file isn't working as expected during v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1839917>

There is no info "Opening the source -i libvirt -ic vpx://..." shown if any IP is wrong in vpx:// URL during v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1838425>

V2V doesn't ask password if there is no option about password file in v2v command line

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1837453>

[RFE]Remove cache=none for guest after v2v converting to libvirt

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1837328>

Virt-v2v cannot convert guest from ESXI7.0 server without vddk

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1832805>

v2v conversion will be failed because of memory allocation failure if convert guest from ESXi6.0 or ESXi6.5 via vddk, or use vddk6.5 to convert guest from VMware

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1789279>

virt-v2v should give more clear error info when use some special invalid uuids for disks

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1788823>

Virt-v2v firstboot scripts should run in order, with v2v network configuration happening first

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1764569>

V2V conversion fails when a filesystem has no free inodes

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1658126>

Virt-v2v can't convert guest using LUKS-on-LV

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1637857>

q35 switch caused: error: unsupported configuration: IDE controllers are unsupported for this QEMU binary or machine type

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1581428>

virt-v2v use Q35 as default machine-type

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1534644>

New way of parsing OVF from OVA that was created by VMware fails.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>,
L<virt-v2v-release-notes-1.42(1)>,
L<guestfs-release-notes-1.40(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Authors of virt-v2v 2.0:

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v1.42.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Denis Plotnikov

=item Kevin Locke

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Martin Kletzander

=item Mikhail Gordeev

=item Nir Soffer

=item Pino Toscano

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Valeriy Vdovin

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2022 Red Hat Inc.
