=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v release notes for 2.6

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 2.6>>.
This describes the major changes since 2.4.

Virt-v2v 2.6.0 was released on S<B<XXX October 2024>>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 New features

You can now use most L<virt-customize(1)> options, such as installing
arbitrary firstboot scripts, uploading or editing files, etc. during
conversions.

Installation of QEMU Guest Agent in Windows guests has been revised
and made much more reliable.  Note that a visible effect of this
change is that Windows guests may reboot four or more times during the
first boot after conversion (which is necessary).  (Thanks Vadim
Rozenfeld, Konstantin Kostiuk, Yuri Benditovich, Yan Vugenfirer).

We now forcibly online all virtio disks during firstboot, working
around a security mitigation in recent versions of Windows that
offlines them if they change bus (Martin Necas).

QEMU Balloon Server (blnsvr) is now installed in Windows guests, if
found on the virtio-win ISO.  This improves statistics gathering for
these guests.

Add support for Circle Linux (Bella Zhang).

Add some support for LoongArch guests (liuxiang).

=begin comment

=head2 Feature removed

=end comment

=head2 Other fixes

I<-i ova> mode now uses the detected guest firmware, if it's not
specified in the OVA metadata (Bella Khizgiyaev).

I<-o kubevirt> output mode has been substantially changed to fix
multiple problems.  It should be more compatible with real KubeVirt
instances now.  (Thanks Arik Hadas, Bella Khizgiyaev, Lee Yarwood,
Martin Necas).

I<-o libvirt> mode now includes an E<lt>os firmwareE<gt> attribute
specifying whether the guest needs BIOS or UEFI to boot.

The output of L<virt-v2v-inspector(1)> has been revised, with much
more metadata available.

The I<--mac> option now allows the gateway and network mask length to
be empty (Arik Hadas).

The debug output of virt-v2v has been improved.  Now when searching
the log for important events, you can just use the regular expression
C</^info:/>

=head2 Build changes

We no longer require external ssh/scp commands for input mode I<-i
vmx>.  Instead we use L<nbdkit-ssh-plugin(1)> (this is not a new
requirement as it is already being used for file transfer).  This
makes remote file detection more predictable, and also allows the
I<-ip> option to be used to specify a password.  (Thanks Ming Xie,
Laszlo Ersek).

OCaml bytecode compilation now outputs the whole exe to make it more
resistant to being stripped (Jerry James).

Multiple test files which were copied over from libguestfs but not
actually used by virt-v2v tests have been deleted.

=head2 Internals

Added a test for I<-o kubevirt> mode.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

./bugs-in-changelog.sh v2.4.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1854275>

document that vmx+ssh "-ip" auth doesn't cover ssh / scp shell commands

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-21365>

Exact string (including the literal *) should be used when converting
guest via vmx by v2v

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-28197>

Missing firmware type for kubvirt and local output

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-33699>

Virt-v2v can't convert guest from maintained ESXi hosts with vddk > 6

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-36591>

Migrated Windows VMs require the BLNSVR.exe service to be installed
for accurate memory reporting

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-45527>

Re-add the info about non-interactive authentication back into
virt-v2v-input-xen

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-45992>

Missing OS info for kubevirt output

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-49761>

qemu-guest-agent not being installed at first boot in Windows Server 2022

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-50731>

Allow --mac gw and len fields to be optional

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-51169>

Uninstalling vmware-tools from windows guest sometimes fails with exit
code 1618 or exit code 1603

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-53990>

network configuration script does not work for Windows 10 i386 guest

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-55763>

Re-enable Windows disks post-live migration [rhel-9.5]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-55837>

Re-enable Windows disks post-live migration [rhel-9.4.z]

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-56784>

window version shows incorrect during converting win11 guest with
build number 22631 by virt-v2v

=item L<https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-58065>

v2v: The -o kubevirt firmware is not compatible with kubevirt api

=item L<https://github.com/libguestfs/virt-v2v/issues/42>

rhv-upload broken since Ovirt 4.5, cause Basic Auth has been removed

=item L<https://github.com/libguestfs/virt-v2v/issues/45>

virt-v2v missing firmware type for kubvirt and local output

=item L<https://github.com/libguestfs/virt-v2v/issues/46>

Clustername not working when on same Data Center, sharing same storage
domains

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Authors of virt-v2v 2.6:

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v2.4.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Andi Chandler

=item Bella Khizgiyaev

=item Bella Zhang

=item Jerry James

=item liuxiang

=item Nir Soffer

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Schamane187

=item Thorsten Bolten

=item Yuri Chornoivan

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2024 Red Hat Inc.
