=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v release notes for 2.2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 2.2>>.
This describes the major changes since 2.0.

Virt-v2v 2.2.0 was released on S<B<9 January 2023>>.

=head2 Security

When running virt-v2v as root, NBD Unix domain sockets in the v2v
directory were openable by any user.  We now set the directory owner
so only qemu can access the sockets.  See:
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2066773 (Xiaodai Wang,
S<Dr David Gilbert>, Daniel Berrangé, Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 New features

New L<virt-v2v-inspector(1)> tool.  This tool can be used before
conversion to collect facts about the source guest, such as number of
disks, and to estimate the disk space required after conversion.

Add support for NVMe devices and SATA hard disks when importing from
VMware VMX files (Laszlo Ersek).

Add support for importing to KubeVirt using the new experimental
I<-o kubevirt> mode.

Windows 11 guests are now supported.

Rocky Linux guest support has been added (Andrey Drobyshev).

=head2 Feature removed

The I<-o json> mode was removed.  It was intended to be used with
KubeVirt but was never actually used there.  Use I<-o kubevirt>
instead.

=head2 Other fixes

Fix detection of virtio-socket support in Linux guests (Laszlo Ersek).
In addition, a semi-random guest CID is chosen in I<-o qemu> mode,
avoiding an error.

Allow importing OVAs where the user or group name inside the tarball
contains a space (Jiří Sléžka).

Reject guests with snapshots when using -i vmx -it ssh (Laszlo Ersek).

Improve documentation for the need to enable PasswordAuthentication on
the server side when importing over SSH (Laszlo Ersek).

Don't use the deprecated qemu I<-balloon> option.  This caused
deprecation warnings with I<-o qemu> mode.  Use I<-device> instead.

Rewrite device mapping in I<-o qemu> mode, removing some strange /
non-existent cases like SCSI floppies.  This should result in more
consistent device layout when using this mode (Laszlo Ersek).

Remove more left over open-vm-tools packages from Linux guests (Tim
Kent).

In I<-o rhv-upload> mode, do not return until the VM has been created
(Tomáš Golembiovský).

Greatly improved vCPU model handling (Laszlo Ersek).

Document extra permissions needed for non-admin conversion with
S<VMware 7> (Ming Xie).

QEMU guest agent is now installed unconditionally and a virtio-serial
socket is created in the guest metadata (where possible) (Laszlo
Ersek).

In the various RHV output modes, the number of disks is now limited to
23.  RHV doesn't support anything greater and would break (Laszlo
Ersek).

I<-oo compressed> is now working again.  It was temporarily broken in
virt-v2v 2.0.

The documentation no longer advises you to use the dangerous global
"LEGACY crypto" option, but provides more targeted advice (Laszlo
Ersek).

Remove the LVM2 devices file during conversion (Laszlo Ersek).

Add support for guests using Zstandard compressed kernel modules.

Add the BOCHS DRM display driver in Linux guest initrd, to avoid a
crash with some guests with graphical boot displays (Laszlo Ersek).

The UEFI fallback boot loader is now fixed up if we detect that it was
broken (Laszlo Ersek).

Improve detection of guests using BIOS boot with GPT partitions so
that we no longer confuse them with UEFI guests (Andrey Drobyshev).

Fix conflict between fwcfg and qemufwcfg Windows drivers (Laszlo
Ersek).

Fix Windows 11 support for RHV outputs (Laszlo Ersek).

=head2 Build changes

Support enhanced tests with glibc E<ge> 2.34.

When using C<make check-valgrind>, valgrind output is no longer
written to separate files under F<tmp/>.  Instead it is written to the
normal test log file.

We now require ocamldep I<-one-line> and I<-all> options (added to
ocamldep in Jan 2012).

The OCaml libvirt bindings are no longer bundled.  They must be
available at build time.

Updated the phony test images.  The tests should all pass.

Add compatibility with OCaml 4.14.

We now require PCRE2 instead of PCRE.

=head2 Internals

New LUKS-on-LVM test added (Laszlo Ersek).

Added F<scripts/git.orderfile> which orders files when we prepare
patches.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v2.0.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2152465>

v2v should set ovirt:id correctly after coverting windows11/2019/2022 guests to rhv via -o rhv-upload

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2151752>

qemufwcfg device cannot start or has no driver after v2v converting windows guests

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2149863>

The version of Win 11/Win 2019/Win 2022 shows incorrect on RHV after virt-v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2149811>

Copy newer versions of drivers for Win 11/Win 2019/Win 2022 during virt-v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2149629>

Win 2022 fails to boot after virt-p2v conversion from physical host with nvme disk

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2131123>

RHEL7 UEFI guest turns into black after v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2116811>

virt-v2v: error: internal error: assertion failed at linux_kernels.ml, line 190, char 11

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2112801>

RHEL9 guest hangs during boot after conversion by virt-p2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2107503>

RHEL 8.6 VM with "qemu64" CPU model can't start because "the CPU is incompatible with host CPU: Host CPU does not provide required features: svm"

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2101665>

"/dev/nvme0n1" is not remapped to "/dev/vda" (etc) in boot config files such as "/boot/grub2/device.map"

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2089623>

Virt-v2v can't convert rhel8.6 guest from VMware on rhel8.6

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2082603>

virt-v2v -o qemu prints cosmetic warning: "warning: short-form boolean option 'readonly' deprecated"

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2076013>

RHEL9.1 guest can't boot into OS after v2v conversion

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2074805>

-o qemu mode fails with: qemu-system-x86_64: -balloon: invalid option and other problems

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2074801>

do not pass "--non-bootable --read-write" to "volume create " in openstack output module

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2070530>

Virt-v2v can't convert guest when os is installed on nvme disk via vmx+ssh

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2070186>

fix virtio-vsock check (for Linux guests) in virt-v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2069768>

Import of OVA fails if the user/group name contains spaces

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2066773>

The /tmp/v2v.XXXX directory has incorrect permisison if run v2v by root

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2062360>

RFE: Virt-v2v should replace hairy "enable LEGACY crypto" advice which a more targeted mechanism

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2059287>

RFE: Rebase virt-v2v to 2.0 in RHEL 9.1

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2051564>

[RFE]Limiting the maximum number of disks per guest for v2v conversions

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2047660>

Add '--compressed' support in modular v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2028764>

Install the qemu-guest-agent package during the conversion process

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2003503>

There is virt-v2v warning: fstrim on guest filesystem /dev/mapper/osprober-linux-sdb1 failed if non-os disk of source guest has few/no inodes lef

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1985827>

Start or remove VM failure even v2v has already finished

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1953286>

No error shows when using virt-v2v -o rhv to convert guest to data domain

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1938954>

-i vmx -it ssh: document percent encoding in ssh URIs

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1883802>

-i vmx: SATA disks are not parsed

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1854275>

document that vmx+ssh "-ip" auth doesn't cover ssh / scp shell commands

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1817050>

Can't convert guest from VMware with non-admin account and vddk >=7.0  by virt-v2v

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1774386>

input_vmx: cleanly reject guests with snapshots when using "-it ssh"

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>,
L<virt-v2v-release-notes-2.0(1)>,
L<virt-v2v-release-notes-1.42(1)>,
L<guestfs-release-notes-1.40(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Authors of virt-v2v 2.2:

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v2.0.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Andrey Drobyshev

=item Emilio Herrera

=item Ettore Atalan

=item Hela Basa

=item Jan Kuparinen

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Marcin Stanclik

=item Ming Xie

=item Pavel Borecki

=item Piotr Drąg

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Ricky Tigg

=item Temuri Doghonadze

=item Tim Kent

=item Tomáš Golembiovský

=item Yuri Chornoivan

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2023 Red Hat Inc.
