=head1 NAME

virt-v2v-release-notes - virt-v2v release notes for 2.4

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are the release notes for S<B<virt-v2v 2.4>>.
This describes the major changes since 2.2.

Virt-v2v 2.4.0 was released on S<B<XXX XXX 2024>>.

=begin comment

=head2 Security

=end comment

=head2 New features

New I<--block-driver> option which can be used to choose to install
either virtio-blk or virtio-scsi drivers (Andrey Drobyshev).

The virt-v2v I<--key> option now recognizes LVM names like
F</dev/mapper/rhel_bootp--73--75--123-root> (Laszlo Ersek).

The I<--key> option also supports a new S<I<--key all:...>> selector
to try the same key on all devices.

=head2 Feature removed

Support for RHEL 3 conversions has been removed.

=head2 Other fixes

Conversions now set the C<host-model> CPU in the output metadata,
except where the source hypervisor overrides this.  The exception is
I<-o qemu> mode which uses I<-cpu host>.  (Thanks Ming Xie, Laszlo
Ersek, Dr. David Alan Gilbert, Daniel Berrangé)

virt-v2v will now look for bootloader configuration in
F</boot/grub/grub.cfg> for UEFI guests (Andrey Drobyshev).

Invoke pnputil (if available) to install drivers, fixing some Windows
conversions (Andrey Drobyshev).

Skip SELinux relabelling if the guest has disabled SELinux (Roman
Kagan).

Several output modes now generate metadata to indicate whether the
guest requires the RTC to be set to UTC (Linux) or localtime (most
Windows).  For example with I<-o libvirt> this generates
S<E<lt>clock offset="utc|localtime"/E<gt>>.  (Thanks Lee Garrett,
Laszlo Ersek)

I<-i ova> mode is now less strict about parsing the manifest file,
which helps when converting some non-conforming OVA files.

Input modes using I<-it ssh> now use the correct quoting (thanks Bill
Sanders, Laszlo Ersek).

I<-i vmx> mode now rejects VMDK files explicitly, reducing a source of
user confusion (thanks Ming Xie).

Multiple fixes to I<-o kubevirt> mode.  Also implement I<-oo
compressed> for this mode.  (Thanks Xiaodai Wang, Ming Xie)

I<-o libvirt> mode now supports Rocky Linux (thanks Ming Xie).

I<-o openstack> documentation for cloud configurations fixed (thanks
Ming Xie).

I<-o rhv-upload> mode has an improved error when the I<-os> parameter
is invalid or missing (thanks Junqin Zhou).

=head2 Build changes

Support for OCaml 5, and OCaml E<ge> 4.07 is now the minimum (thanks
Guillaume Munch-Maccagnoni, Jerry James, Josh Berdine, Jürgen Hötzel,
Vincent Laviron).

Fix several tests so they can handle the case where the operating
system does not support btrfs or NTFS, instead of failing (Laszlo
Ersek).

Fix compatibility issues with libxml2 2.12.

=head2 Internals

Fix an off-by-one error which caused very rare crashes in virt-v2v.

=head2 Bugs fixed

=begin comment

https_proxy= ./bugs-in-changelog.sh v2.2.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2182024>

improve UX when running as root and we can't chown v2v tmpdir or socks

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2175703>

virt-v2v failed to inspect RHEL9.2 guest due to kernel-core /
kernel-modules-core subpackage split

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2172075>

Modify virt-v2v-output-openstack man page to add cloud.yaml related
information

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2168506>

RFE: Virt-v2v should recognize partition names like '/dev/mapper/rhel
boot--73--75--123-root' in related keys option

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2168082>

win11/2022 failed to start into OS after converting to local libvirt
via virt-v2v on AMD EPYC-Milan CPU model host

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2166619>

kernel panic when booting into OS with rocky9 guest converted by v2v
to local libvirt

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2166618>

There is virt-v2v: warning: unknown guest operating system: linux
rocky 9.1 x86_64 when convert rocky guests to local libvirt

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2162444>

Enable '--oo compressed' for -o kubevirt

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2162332>

-o kubevirt mode must rename guest to comply with KubeVirt
requirements: metadata.name: Invalid value: "esx8.0-rhel8.8-x86_64":
a lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain must consist of lower case
alphanumeric characters, '-' or '.', and must start and end with an a

=item L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/1986386>

Improve error message when converting to rhv using the wrong data
domain name which has a specific character

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<virt-v2v(1)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Authors of virt-v2v 2.4:

=begin comment

git shortlog -s v2.2.0..

=end comment

=over 4

=item Andrey Drobyshev

=item Emilio Herrera

=item grimst

=item Jan Kuparinen

=item Laszlo Ersek

=item Pavel Borecki

=item Piotr Drąg

=item Richard W.M. Jones

=item Temuri Doghonadze

=item Yuri Chornoivan

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2024 Red Hat Inc.
